Add graphQL landingPage configuration and updates Playground → Sandbox (#2343)
strapi/documentation: docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/plugins/graphql.md

</Tabs>

Then, start your app and open your browser at [http://localhost:1337/graphql](http://localhost:1337/graphql). You should now be able to access the **GraphQL Sandbox** that will help you to write your GraphQL queries and mutations.

:::note

> The GraphQL Sandbox is enabled by default in all environments except production. Set the `landingPage` configuration option to `true` to also enable the GraphQL Playground in production environments (see [plugins configuration documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql-configuration)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL Sandbox is enabled by default in all environments except production. Set the `landingPage` configuration option to `true` to also enable the GraphQL Playground in production environments (see [plugins configuration documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql)).
```

:::

## Configuration

> Plugins configuration are defined in the `config/plugins.js` file. This configuration file can include a `graphql.config` object to define specific configurations for the GraphQL plugin (see [plugins configuration documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql-configuration)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins configuration are defined in the `config/plugins.js` file. This configuration file can include a `graphql.config` object to define specific configurations for the GraphQL plugin (see [plugins configuration documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql)).
```

> [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/api/apollo-server/#apolloserver) options can be passed directly to Apollo with the `graphql.config.apolloServer` [configuration object](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql-configuration). Apollo Server options can be used for instance to enable the [tracing feature](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/metrics/), which is supported by the GraphQL Sandbox to track the response time of each part of your query. The `Apollo Server` default cache option is `cache: 'bounded'`. You can change it in the `apolloServer` configuration. For more information visit [Apollo Server Docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/cache-backends/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/api/apollo-server/#apolloserver) options can be passed directly to Apollo with the `graphql.config.apolloServer` [configuration object](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql). Apollo Server options can be used for instance to enable the [tracing feature](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/metrics/), which is supported by the GraphQL Sandbox to track the response time of each part of your query. The `Apollo Server` default cache option is `cache: 'bounded'`. You can change it in the `apolloServer` configuration. For more information visit [Apollo Server Docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/cache-backends/).
```

:::caution
The maximum number of items returned by the response is limited to 100 by default. This value can be changed using the `amountLimit` configuration option, but should only be changed after careful consideration: a large query can cause a DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) and may cause abnormal load on your Strapi server, as well as your database server.
:::

## GraphQL Configuration Options

> Here is a detailed list of configuration options supported by the GraphQL plugin. These options can be defined in the `config/plugins.js` (JavaScript) or `config/plugins.ts` (TypeScript) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a detailed list of configuration options supported by the GraphQL plugin. The following options can be defined in the `config/plugins` file:
```

| `amountLimit`      | Number              | Limits the maximum number of items returned in a single response.                                                                                                | `100`         | Use cautiously to avoid performance issues.         |
| `playgroundAlways` | Boolean             | [Deprecated] Enables GraphQL Playground in all environments (deprecated).                                                                                        | `false`       | Prefer using `landingPage` instead.                 |
| `landingPage`      | Boolean \| Function | Enables or disables the landing page for GraphQL. Accepts a boolean or a function returning a boolean or an ApolloServerPlugin implementing `renderLandingPage`. |               | `false` in production, `true` in other environments |
| `apolloServer`     | Object              | Passes configuration options directly to Apollo Server.                                                                                                          | `{}`          | Example: `{ tracing: true }`                        |

### Example

> Below is an example of how to use these options in a Strapi configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of how to use these options in a Strapi configuration file:
```

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```ts title="./config/plugins.ts"
export default {
  graphql: {
    config: {
      endpoint: '/graphql',
      shadowCRUD: true,
      landingPage: false, // disable Sandbox everywhere
      depthLimit: 7,
      amountLimit: 100,
    },
  },
};
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Here is an example of using a function to dynamically enable it:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">

<TabItem value="javascript" label="JavaScript">

```javascript title="./config/plugins.js"

> module.exports = {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module.exports = ({ env }) => {
```

  graphql: {
    config: {
      endpoint: '/graphql',
      shadowCRUD: true,
      landingPage: (strapi) => {
        if (env("NODE_ENV") !== "production") {
          return true;
        } else {
          return false;
        }
      },
    },
  },
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="typescript" label="TypeScript">

```ts title="./config/plugins.ts"

> export default {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export default ({ env }) => {
```

</Tabs>

### CORS exceptions for Landing Page

If the landing page is enabled in production environments (which is not recommended), CORS headers for the Apollo Server landing page must be added manually.

To add them globally, you can merge the following into your middleware configuration:

```
{
  name: "strapi::security",
  config: {
    contentSecurityPolicy: {
      useDefaults: true,
      directives: {
        "connect-src": ["'self'", "https:", "apollo-server-landing-page.cdn.apollographql.com"],
        "img-src": ["'self'", "data:", "blob:", "apollo-server-landing-page.cdn.apollographql.com"],
        "script-src": ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'", "apollo-server-landing-page.cdn.apollographql.com"],
        "style-src": ["'self'", "'unsafe-inline'", "apollo-server-landing-page.cdn.apollographql.com"],
        "frame-src": ["sandbox.embed.apollographql.com"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> To add these exceptions only for the /graphql path (recommended), you can create a new middleware to handle it. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add these exceptions only for the `/graphql` path (recommended), you can create a new middleware to handle it. For example:
```

GraphQL is a query language allowing users to use a broader panel of inputs than traditional REST APIs. GraphQL APIs are inherently prone to security risks, such as credential leakage and denial of service attacks, that can be reduced by taking appropriate precautions.

### Disable introspection and Sandbox in production

In production environments, disabling the GraphQL Sandbox and the introspection query is strongly recommended.

> If you haven't edited the [configuration file](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql-configuration), it is already disabled in production by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't edited the [configuration file](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql), it is already disabled in production by default.
```

GraphQL is a query language allowing users to use a broader panel of inputs than traditional REST APIs. GraphQL APIs are inherently prone to security risks, such as credential leakage and denial of service attacks, that can be reduced by taking appropriate precautions.

### Disable introspection and Sandbox in production

In production environments, disabling the GraphQL Sandbox and the introspection query is strongly recommended.
If you haven't edited the [configuration file](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql-configuration), it is already disabled in production by default.

### Limit max depth and complexity

> A malicious user could send a query with a very high depth, which could overload your server. Use the `depthLimit` [configuration parameter](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql-configuration) to limit the maximum number of nested fields that can be queried in a single request. By default, `depthLimit` is set to 10 but can be set to a higher value during testing and development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A malicious user could send a query with a very high depth, which could overload your server. Use the `depthLimit` [configuration parameter](/dev-docs/configurations/plugins#graphql) to limit the maximum number of nested fields that can be queried in a single request. By default, `depthLimit` is set to 10 but can be set to a higher value during testing and development.
```
